all right let's start with your
relationship with Bill Russell you cold
called him I did why well I wanted to
learn I think the most important thing
that we can do when you want to learn is
to actually pick up the phone and ask
and so I pick up the phone and I reached
out to Bill Russell and that began a
great relationship of mentorship and you
got a lot of great stories to share with
me not just things on the court but off
the court especially in that time when
he was playing those two things could
not be separated because one word with
the other so how is your relationship
with Bill Russell evolved since you made
that initial call well I was getting
ready for my jersey retirement ceremony
and my phone rings and I pick it up and
it's bill maybe bill says you know I'm
I'm in the area I wouldn't I would love
to come I said I I would I don't even
think that you would want to come to my
retirement ceremony because I would love
to be there for you and so he came down
and he had I had a chance to spend some
time together and he's he's been a great
mentor for me Wow so tactically speaking
you know Molly always geeked out about
the game he said when I played I could
score the ball I could handle the ball
and I could pass the ball but it was
really important and in order for us to
win I had to look at my teammates and
say okay there's other players here that
do that better therefore I must allow
them to do that and what I do best is
defend and rebound so I'm going to
completely focus on that let koozie
hands of the ball I unless Sam's be the
shooter how much had to be the shooter
and I thought that was a very very
insightful thing that I use and how I
was able to go on and win those two
championships post shot did you learn
about leadership Wow you know he one of
the things he said is yeah at the time
he's doing with a lot of racial issues
in Boston
and stories people throwing things at
him during the game and yelling craziest
things from one a court I said well how
did you deal with it he said well I
internalized it I felt like the best
thing that I could do is use that as
fuel as opposed to simply having an
emotional outbursts to them I decided to
use that as as energy to enhance my
performance right so even though he's it
seems as if he's not he's tuning out the
noise he isn't he's hearing it and he's
using it but you're also still a black
man in America
how have you bounced a door how did you
balance that throughout your career and
how are you balancing that now I just
try to do what's right I do what's right
yeah stand up who it is that you believe
in and you know I think the struggle
always seems to be of what is available
to you now as opposed to what's the
right thing to do for years to come
right and I think the easiest thing that
we can do is just do what is right now
even if it may seem uncomfortable even
if it doesn't seem like it's publicly
accepted you got to do what's right when
you look across the landscape of the
back athletes today who whose leadership
impresses you the most a lot they were
Colin Kaepernick stood for is is this
the epitome of doing what he believes is
right now things have been taken out of
context and misconstrued and they try to
bend it this way that way
and missing the point of what it is the
message that she was getting across and
I think having a bravery to be able to
do that as something that we should all
stand for you decided to do
to his campaign his fundraising campaign
what made you do that well exactly that
I mean you know it's it's it's very hard
as a black athlete it's just simply sit
here and say you know what we're
comfortable we made it we have it made
it's okay we don't we don't need to jump
into this thing it's too much
controversy we don't need it is that the
right thing to do you know it's not so
why do it right so it was a very easy
decision for me what do you think about
what's happened to his career no I think
I think he'll get his shot and I think
there's gonna be a lot of people out
there that want to see him fail and he's
not going to and he'll rise to the top
again and everybody looked back I would
a great story it was that's what I
think's gonna happen when you look at
everything that he's done and everything
that he's been through what kind of
influence do you think that's had on
other black athletes well I think it
gives a sense of urgency no it wasn't
like the issues weren't there already
but I think
when Colin initiated what he did it
brought a sense of urgency innocence a
call to action an immediacy that wasn't
there before
right it brought it to a national level
something that cannot be ignored anymore
and I think it gave a sense of urgency
and we need to do something and we need
to do something now I mean there's more
influence I think the time of Russell
was trying to really get your foot in
the door what state managed to do and
break new ground all the way up to going
through you know dr. J and the
endorsements that came from that all the
way from magic and Michael and
everything that they've achieved all the
way through myself and LeBron these guys
and now what comes next
right and I think it's our
responsibility to try to help the next
generation progress just as the
generation previous to us left the
industry in a better place for us when
you think about someone like Martin
Luther King jr. one of the biggest icons
and what comes to mind
patience empathy understanding those are
the three things that come to mind I
mean it's it's it's it's hard in certain
times to not act impulsively but his
trust in the Union spirit and his
patience with people and saying no this
is the right thing to do this is how
we'll go about it and the determination
to stick with that and believe that the
human spirit will eventually triumph
other things that inspire me the most
thinking about your leadership how is it
different more power do you feel the
responsibility to be more vocal how do
you see yourself yeah
well it's different now it's changed you
know when I played you know the the
vehicle through which I can communicate
through interviews and things of that
nature that's what I had available to me
now it's different now on the
storytelling business you're there
characters that we will create short
stories that we were right movies that
we make that is where we can really help
move culture forward and so we're really
excited about what we're creating there
is that part of how you see the what
snakes
question though absolutely absolutely
absolutely you know I you know
storytelling moves the world it changes
everything whether whether it's
information or inspirational nothing in
this world moves without story and so
extremely extremely excited to bring
strong characters to the world that show
the next generation how to progress you
think about
like the black athletes have played in
terms of advancing society how important
do you think people like Bill Russell
and Muhammad Ali have been in advancing
the general agenda of America
well crucial you know what we stand for
what America stands for
you know the cultural melting pot that
is America the diversity that is America
it's all about moving that culture
forward and from Hamid I lead to Bill
Russell I mean they that's what they've
done that's what they've pioneered and
it's our responsibility to try to carry
that forward and you know the good thing
about it too in this age of multimedia
is that we all have different vehicles
to which we can do that be it social
media be it protest before a game the
interviews or be filmed we all have
different vehicles to which we can
communicate just in terms of what they
did
maybe athletically but also socially you
mentioned a few names about the athletes
today black athletes a day that you feel
have been really inspiring for you who
is the black athlete that is most
inspired you throughout your life well
you know Michael Jordan for me was
always you know the person that inspired
me the most and you know how he carried
himself how he handled things and how he
carried the athlete the black athlete
not just in the United States of America
but became a global phenomenon and
saying okay a black athlete can reach
the masses and inspire the masses on a
global scale
LeBron seems to be somewhat embracing
kind of that role while he's still in
the peak of his career when you look at
his evolution what kind of comes to mind
for you oh I think it's you know for
Brian I don't think it's much of a tough
choice for him to to speak on it
you know I think if this is like he's
gonna do what's right he's gonna say his
piece and whether you're a fan of his or
not if you were a fan and you don't
agree with what he's saying and now he
just lost the fan he's fine with that
because he's gonna do what's right and I
think that's a great example for all of
us
how do you get to that point as a black
athlete does it come with as you have
more success or what what happens what
triggers that maybe something triggered
it for you in personally no I think you
know for me I'm sure for Brian as well
is yo the way we approach the game the
same way we approach life you do the
right thing you make the right play make
the right play and your life is the same
thing what are you feeling your heart is
the right thing to do and you do that
you know it seems so simple but
sometimes the simplest things are the
hardest things to do and I think it's
just that to use a basketball term pivot
a little way a little bit from the
socially conscious directions we're
going in and ask you about something
that I'm sure is near and dear to your
heart your Philadelphia Eagles just
we're a Super Bowl everybody oh I can't
believe my wife called that I was in my
zone well it's like the spirit of the
Eagle took ahold of me and I just could
not contain myself but I had to because
I was holding a little one you're all
good but still like it was just so is
that moment where you know like you see
the ball in the air and I'm just like no
no you see his Gronk he's just like the
hole please no and the ball is juggling
around you're like no
did you see the pages make those plays
time and time again right so the ball
hits the ground I'm like yes and I look
at the clock I'm like oh my god you know
it's like everything just kind of
happened one after the other and I'm
just thankful honestly that it wasn't
like tear a hamstring or something jump
it around
exactly exactly
clearly it does not compare to you
winning a child but kind of a close
second
well it was more exciting because you
know it's um when you play and you're in
control of the game you know you're in
that moment right you don't have the
nervousness because you know what the
sequences are you know what the options
are you know but watching it you're just
completely helpless it's just like you
start feeling weird like okay if I shift
to the right what's gonna happen you
know maybe if I shift to the oh I moved
too much I'm just sit still right here
you know it's that whole superstition
thing like being superstitious this is
pretty interesting
I know because again like I'm total I'm
in total fan mode which is different
than being in game mode for you you know
if they never win again
alright I'm not saying they will but
they never win again like how much would
you look back and cherish you know being
able to witness something then oh my god
I'll cherish that forever
yeah absolutely but you know I I like
our chances to do it he didn't though
not going would I mean but but but you
know I don't think I don't think any of
them are satisfied yeah was it more
special for you because you know to
experience that fake because I imagine
you don't experience that very much
right ever yeah you know but I've
endured years of taunting and teasing
from past teammates and friends and
co-workers because there were Steelers
fans Cowboy fans Patriot fans and I
could never really be a part of that
discussion because they all would just
say well we got a chip hmm you don't
just that just kind of ends to the sky
you know that means so years of torment
are now over does it make it sweeter
that it was the Patriots honestly I
wouldn't care who it was I wouldn't care
who it was you know I you know Tom and
Bill I admire very very very much and I
love both of those guys so it could have
been playing against anybody quite frank
a quick question about mentorship you've
taken a lot of different guys kind of
under your wing I don't want to
overstate it either or undersell it so
why did you want to step in and play
that particular role everybody knows
about your relation of a Cowrie and
Isaiah Thomas like what drove you to
become a mentor to kind of younger
players NBA well it's the same thing my
mentors did for me coming up you know
from the age of 18 from do Russell I
remember when I first had the idea of
building a studio I reached out to Oprah
and we sat on the phone for a hour and a
half just talking and her giving me
incredible words of wisdom about how to
go about it because of that it's my
responsibility to do that for the next
generation that may have questions as
well I mean that's that's what we do we
help each other out I think it drives me
crazy when people say okay you guys are
all in this pot you guys all fighting
over the same thing therefore they Pit
one against the other whether it's me or
bran or bran and Kady is like you're
stepping also stuff going on and it's
nonsensical and we all need to help each
other out so I think it's part of my
responsibility to do that and do you
find that when you're giving advice or
talking to them like you know how much a
lot of people often accuse like younger
players are not being open to that kind
of thing but from what you've seen of
the guys that you've talked to like how
how much willingness do you do you find
in them to to have that kind of
fellowship in mentorship with you well
it's been great I mean I've seen a lot
of willingness from the players and you
know to the point where that bill Sydney
video clips and asked me what do I see
and you know call me about certain
matchups or certain defensive packages
that may be giving them problems and
they seem they seem to enjoy it and then
some of them come out here doing the
summer too and you know we'll spend some
time in a gym you know working with a
myself they still think they can take
you well right now but you probably yeah
you know only time I might touch a
basketball now is to shoot with Gianna
so
Masucci would challenge them I'm sure
you absolutely would our best thing is
like when we go out people come up to us
I'll be me and Gianna they'll go invite
Colby when are you gonna have a boy
we're gonna have a boy and Gianna's look
at hanim they're like you need a boy to
carry on your bekesy she's like I got
this you know boy to do that I'll take
care of this oh my god it's like the
greatest thing about the drafting format
well I mean from a competitive
standpoint if I was still playing I'd be
really quick to talk trash about how the
east just finally said you know what
we'll never beat the West so we got to
do something different because the West
was just kicking butt every single year
year-over-year so that's kind of what I
would say as I see her now I think it
turned out it turned out to be fine I
mean it's like the greatest pickup game
in the world you got two captains pick
your squad I picked my squad and now
let's see be totally honest if you were
the captain you know when you and Shaq
rode different teams would you put check
would you have to have to share what
year we talking shag okay we should kill
knew the Miami Heat first year the Miami
Heat first year no take LeBron James if
I had the opportunity I would but me I
got it like you know I'll be man I think
you know I think we tend to make a lot
more of it than actually years I'm sure
there's disagreements stuff like them
you know happening you know that goes
right Altima Lima get on the basketball
court guys respect each other they just
want to play and compete so I've never
seen it as being much of a problem
obviously one of the biggest issues in
sports was the national anthem peaceful
protests that took place with the
NFL players given the NBA stance on
standing for the national anthem
seeing the landscaping sports if you
were still playing with that have been
something you would have participated in
I would participate in for sure yeah
yeah struggle have gotten some flack for
that's fine and I think what Collins
message was a very simple one its police
brutality needs to stop need to take a
look at that what kind of conversations
I guess could you imagine taking place
in the locker room as that was going on
like if you were sealed well I mean from
my experience in a locker room it
doesn't seem like any other players that
I've played with you certainly would
have had issue with that and I think we
understand this is a free country I
think we have the right for peaceful
protests we have the right - and by the
way I mean from my point of view and
that's what the flag represents as well
the ability to speak the ability to
voice your pain and everybody is
entitled to that
so everybody getting up in arms about it
they're certainly in their right to do
that as we're certainly in our right to
the protest peacefully at that